README.md, before:


# Tomato Online Shop 🍅
## 🌐 [tomato-online-shop.ru](https://tomato-online-shop.ru)

[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.10+-3776AB?style=flat&logo=python&logoColor=white)](https://python.org)
[![Flask](https://img.shields.io/badge/Flask-3.0.3+-000000?style=flat&logo=flask&logoColor=white)](https://flask.palletsprojects.com)
[![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/MySQL-8.0+-4479A1?style=flat&logo=mysql&logoColor=white)](https://www.mysql.com)
[![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-20.10+-2496ED?style=flat&logo=docker&logoColor=white)](https://www.docker.com)
[![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/JavaScript-ES6+-F7DF1E?style=flat&logo=javascript&logoColor=black)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript)
[![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-14+-339933?style=flat&logo=node.js&logoColor=white)](https://nodejs.org/)
[![HTML5](https://img.shields.io/badge/HTML5-E34F26?style=flat&logo=html5&logoColor=white)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML)
[![CSS3](https://img.shields.io/badge/CSS3-1572B6?style=flat&logo=css3&logoColor=white)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS)
An e-commerce platform for selling fresh vegetables, developed with Python Flask, MySQL database, and SMTP for email notifications.

## 🔥 Key Features

- User-friendly vegetable catalog with filtering
- News feed
- Contact information
- Informational blocks
- Shopping cart
- Order processing
- Admin panel:
    
    - Create product categories and subcategories
    - Add, modify, and delete product categories
    - Add, modify, and delete products
    - Enable/disable shopping cart functionality
    - View order list        
    - Filter order list
    - Export order list
- Email notifications via SMTP
- Docker containerization

## 🛠 Technologies

- **Backend**: Python Flask
- **Database**: MySQL
- **Frontend**: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap
- **Email**: SMTP (поддержка Yandex)
- **Deployment**: Docker
## 🚀 Quick Start

### 📦 Installation via Docker Compose
Project Setup with Docker Compose and Environment Variables
This project uses Docker Compose to manage multi-container Docker applications. Follow the instructions below to set up and run the project.

### Prerequisites
Ensure you have the following tools installed:
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

### Setting Up Environment Variables

1. Create a `.env` file in the root directory of the project.
2. Add the following environment variables to the `.env` file, replacing the values with your own:

### ⚙️ Environment Variables Configuration

| Variable         | Default Value            | Description                       |
| ---------------- | ------------------------ | --------------------------------- |
| `MYSQL_DATABASE` | `your_db_name`           | MySQL database name               |
| `MYSQL_USER`     | `your_db_user_name`      | MySQL username                    |
| `MYSQL_PASSWORD` | `your_password`          | MySQL password                    |
| `SECRET_KEY`     | `your_secret_key`        | Flask application secret key      |
| `MAIL_SERVER`    | `smtp.yandex.ru`         | Yandex SMTP server address        |
| `MAIL_PORT`      | `587`                    | Yandex SMTP port                  |
| `MAIL_USE_TLS`   | `1`                      | Enable TLS encryption             |
| `MAIL_USERNAME`  | `your_email_login`       | Yandex email login                |
| `MAIL_PASSWORD`  | `your_smtp_password`     | Yandex smtp password/app password |
| `DOMAIN`         | `https://your_domain.ru` | Primary domain for URL generation |
| `NEW_DOMAIN2`    | `https://your_domain.ru` | Primary domain for URL generation |

### Additional Notes:
- The default port 8000 is mapped to the container's internal port 5000
- Admin routes are protected and require authentication
- SMTP configuration shown is for Yandex Mail (can be adjusted for other providers)

### Running the Project with Docker Compose
1. Open a terminal and navigate to the root directory of the project.
2. Start the project using Docker Compose:
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```
This command will start all the services defined in the `docker-compose.yml` file in the background.

### Description of the docker-compose.yml File
The `docker-compose.yml` file defines two services:

- `db`: A MySQL database service.
- `app`: Your application service.

Both services are configured to operate on the same network and have dependencies set so that the application starts only after the database is ready.

### **Create admin user**:
   ```bash
   docker exec -it mysql_container mysql -u name_user_db -p
   ```
   **In MySQL Client, execute:**
   ```sql
   USE name_db;
   INSERT INTO user (name, password, is_admin)
   VALUES ('admin', 'your_hashed_password', 1);
   ```

   **To generate the password hash, use Python:**
   ```python
   from werkzeug.security import generate_password_hash
   print(generate_password_hash('your_password'))
   ```

## 🌐 Access

The application will be available at: [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000)

Admin panel: `/admin`

Commit message:

Update README.md and prepare Docker volume directories - Document volume setup in README.md - Create required directories:   - ~/mysql_data for MySQL persistence   - ~/images for uploaded files

README.md, after:


# Tomato Online Shop 🍅
## 🌐 [tomato-online-shop.ru](https://tomato-online-shop.ru)

[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.10+-3776AB?style=flat&logo=python&logoColor=white)](https://python.org)
[![Flask](https://img.shields.io/badge/Flask-3.0.3+-000000?style=flat&logo=flask&logoColor=white)](https://flask.palletsprojects.com)
[![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/MySQL-8.0+-4479A1?style=flat&logo=mysql&logoColor=white)](https://www.mysql.com)
[![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-20.10+-2496ED?style=flat&logo=docker&logoColor=white)](https://www.docker.com)
[![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/JavaScript-ES6+-F7DF1E?style=flat&logo=javascript&logoColor=black)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript)
[![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-14+-339933?style=flat&logo=node.js&logoColor=white)](https://nodejs.org/)
[![HTML5](https://img.shields.io/badge/HTML5-E34F26?style=flat&logo=html5&logoColor=white)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML)
[![CSS3](https://img.shields.io/badge/CSS3-1572B6?style=flat&logo=css3&logoColor=white)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS)
An e-commerce platform for selling fresh vegetables, developed with Python Flask, MySQL database, and SMTP for email notifications.

## 🔥 Key Features

- User-friendly vegetable catalog with filtering
- News feed
- Contact information
- Informational blocks
- Shopping cart
- Order processing
- Admin panel:
    
    - Create product categories and subcategories
    - Add, modify, and delete product categories
    - Add, modify, and delete products
    - Enable/disable shopping cart functionality
    - View order list        
    - Filter order list
    - Export order list
- Email notifications via SMTP
- Docker containerization

## 🛠 Technologies

- **Backend**: Python Flask
- **Database**: MySQL
- **Frontend**: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap
- **Email**: SMTP (поддержка Yandex)
- **Deployment**: Docker
## 🚀 Quick Start

### 📦 Installation via Docker Compose
Project Setup with Docker Compose and Environment Variables
This project uses Docker Compose to manage multi-container Docker applications. Follow the instructions below to set up and run the project.

### Prerequisites
Ensure you have the following tools installed:
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

### Setting Up Environment Variables

1. Create a `.env` file in the root directory of the project.
2. Add the following environment variables to the `.env` file, replacing the values with your own:

### ⚙️ Environment Variables Configuration

| Variable         | Default Value            | Description                       |
| ---------------- | ------------------------ | --------------------------------- |
| `MYSQL_DATABASE` | `your_db_name`           | MySQL database name               |
| `MYSQL_USER`     | `your_db_user_name`      | MySQL username                    |
| `MYSQL_PASSWORD` | `your_password`          | MySQL password                    |
| `SECRET_KEY`     | `your_secret_key`        | Flask application secret key      |
| `MAIL_SERVER`    | `smtp.yandex.ru`         | Yandex SMTP server address        |
| `MAIL_PORT`      | `587`                    | Yandex SMTP port                  |
| `MAIL_USE_TLS`   | `1`                      | Enable TLS encryption             |
| `MAIL_USERNAME`  | `your_email_login`       | Yandex email login                |
| `MAIL_PASSWORD`  | `your_smtp_password`     | Yandex smtp password/app password |
| `DOMAIN`         | `https://your_domain.ru` | Primary domain for URL generation |
| `NEW_DOMAIN2`    | `https://your_domain.ru` | Primary domain for URL generation |

### Additional Notes:
- The default port 8000 is mapped to the container's internal port 5000
- Admin routes are protected and require authentication
- SMTP configuration shown is for Yandex Mail (can be adjusted for other providers)

### Volumes 
Before running the Docker containers, ensure that the necessary directories for volumes are created. These directories are used to persist data generated by the containers.
Run the following commands to create the required directories:
```bash
mkdir -p ~/mysql_data
mkdir -p ~/images
```

### Running the Project with Docker Compose
1. Open a terminal and navigate to the root directory of the project.
2. Start the project using Docker Compose:
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```
This command will start all the services defined in the `docker-compose.yml` file in the background.

### Description of the docker-compose.yml File
The `docker-compose.yml` file defines two services:

- `db`: A MySQL database service.
- `app`: Your application service.

Both services are configured to operate on the same network and have dependencies set so that the application starts only after the database is ready.

### **Create admin user**:
   ```bash
   docker exec -it mysql_container mysql -u name_user_db -p
   ```
   **In MySQL Client, execute:**
   ```sql
   USE name_db;
   INSERT INTO user (name, password, is_admin)
   VALUES ('admin', 'your_hashed_password', 1);
   ```

   **To generate the password hash, use Python:**
   ```python
   from werkzeug.security import generate_password_hash
   print(generate_password_hash('your_password'))
   ```

## 🌐 Access

The application will be available at: [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000)

Admin panel: `/admin`
